# Meraki Ansible Deployment Guide

When it comes to networks more and more organisations are looking to standardise their tooling for the configuration and management of these networks. An increasingly popular tool is the use of Ansible as part of a wider service chain to standardise what deployments look like.

In this short guide I will be showing how we can use Ansible and Cisco Meraki and potentially. A third party service management system such as Jira or Service now to automate the deployment on branches the Meraki dashboards all the way from creation of networks, claiming of devices, binding of network templates and updating network specific details

This kind of usecase is massive for any kind of branch environment where networks are likely to be simple but the numbers of actual physical locations could go into the thousands. With our workflow we’re able to automate the whole logical deployment with the creation of a single ticket. It’s typically not feasible to have a dedicated network professional visit each location to carry out the install. With this kind of solution the deployment can be a mostly physical job where all thats required it to plug in the cables and test connectivity as much of the deployment will have been done before the infrastructure probably arrives at its destination.

## Diagram of workflow

The handover to the networking configuration here could happen and different poitns of the

* CSV files generated by an ITSM system as the result of a service request, eg ServiceNow, Jira
* Configuration files built and commited to a source control system
* Part of an Ansible Tower workflow

In this example I'll be showing how we use a YAML file with the required details for our networks and devices this will populate the playbook we've build and allow it to run carrying out all the tasks required to set up the networks. For a full breakdown of the tasks in the playbook skip ahead to the next section. For posterity, in the example files we've also included a read from CSV example playbook also.

One of the things that makes this so simple is the Meraki platform which provides us two main benefits here that are quite unique. Firstly Meraki supports ZTP natively therefore will allow the devices to call home as soon as they receive an internet connection. This will then allow the devices to pull down a config thats already been set well in advance and we don’t have to rely on our playbook getting individual device connectivity, the dashboard has the device configs stored waiting for the device to announce itself.

Secondly the way Meraki supports templates allows us to abstract away much of the configuration in our playbook and automate much of the config simply by attaching a template. All we have to do is build a few custom tasks for firewall rules and IP Addressing which is specific to our branch.

## Prerequsites

## Ansible

## CICD 

## Breakdown of playbook

Watch this short video here where I explain the process.

And there we have it, showing how you as an IT team can standardise your configuration tooling and automate your branch environment by bringing up new sites in a fraction of a time with minimal human intervention.

## Running playbook
